the economy is teetering on the edge and
the consumer is down and out you came
here for the truth so let me unveil that
for you I'm going to show you what's
actually going on and why March
2024 is the moment we've all been
waiting for let's break it down and I'll
show you what I mean the first thing is
people run out of their inflation
created Savings in roughly March of 2024
this chart comes from the San Francisco
fed all right cumulative excess savings
held by us households was in the
trillions of dollars and will be
depleted soon enough of course this to
be taken with a grain of salt because
there are other things that have
happened ever since there's a lot of you
know problem that had existed there were
many things that came into place PPP
loans moratoriums so much debt at the
time all these things okay so many
factors to really take into account but
what I want to explain to you is that
March of 2024 happens to also be the
time in which the btfp the bank term
funding program this is the temporary or
emergency program that the Federal
Reserve set up to as like a Lifeline to
the banks when svb Silicon Valley Bank
and all these others started to crash
and so March 2024 happens to be where
the market the future
where they were basically betting that
the Federal Reserve is going to cut for
the first time in this cycle it's all
coming to a head in March
2024 very interesting now there are many
other things happening in 2024 Financial
conditions when we measure that broadly
not just what the current interest rate
is but looking at other things Financial
conditions have been easing for several
months if you can believe it or not and
that allows people to businesses and
people to basically say ah let's you
know let's take a bre breath let's take
a breather things are getting easier you
may not sense that you may not see that
but when it comes to the risk-taking
investor this is what's happening behind
the scenes it is a very worrisome
thought because we usually go Wy coyote
over the edge not sort of you know
stepping on the brakes before we get to
The Cliff it's usually on and over and
then oops we've gone too far that same
thing happens with the consumers they
don't stop in advance they borrow and
spend like there's no
tomorrow this is talking about let let
me get
into discount supermarkets perform
particularly well over the period of
time of saying that hey we're we're
doing well you're looking at people
requiring the dollar stores more than
ever before their performance has been
good people are going to Costco people
are going to Walmart as well but dollar
stores being one of them they are
looking for discounts and Deals now that
doesn't mean that they're not shopping
around but what I have heard I saw all
of your
comments read through all of them many
many comment we're talking about boots
on the ground of people saying I went to
my local Walmart I went to my local mall
so on and so forth and it was
significantly less busy than prior years
coincidence maybe anecdotal evidence yes
but I love that that's what I really
like to look at because I don't want to
say oh you know spending was $10 billion
this year that means nothing to me does
it mean anything to you you look I sell
online all right and when I see those
Amazon Prime you know we did you know $1
billion in sales on Amazon Prime Day do
you know that that's a false number
gives you a you know a false look at it
why is that because I can tell you this
personally the days leading up into
Boxing Day into Prime day into any sort
of big sale day they start to decline
you get this huge spike in sales on
those days and by the way you have to
put a discount or else buyers may not
purchase and the days after that there's
also you know this decline that persists
and then it starts to go and you know go
back to where it was before the the
trend when you measure it overall like
over a 30day period I find it's probably
actually worse okay because people are
deal hunting and they wait they simply
wait and wait and wait they maybe add it
to their cart and then they just wait
for the day and hey is there priced
cheaper than it was before yes or no
that's it that's the way it works okay
and so that's what's going on the
consumer is not where it was before
we're not where they were
before um this is showing us the labor
market talking about the fact that look
we have an issue with unemployment it
needs to get historically it needs to
get above 4% for there to be an official
problem of worry that this is now taking
off we're not there obviously in fact it
started to tick up to
3.9% and then came back down that's u3
unemployment it's not a real measure of
how many people are unemployed but hey
that's the one that they use when we
look at that economy you know stabilized
the job market stab
izing and that is a very important
factor for recession why do we care
about this because if we go into
recession and it's going to be mild well
then the Federal Reserve can simply
start cutting interest rates the markets
can go up further from here with
potentially no or little to no decline
that's key like that's
important people are waiting for this
epic crash but but we need a catalyst
very important as well more borrowers
turning to lenders of Last Resort this
is out of Canada but it applies to
everybody we see this all the time and I
mean it is sad whether it's buy now pay
later I mean you you're going to go buy
a TV and then you're going to use buy
now pay later I mean my good when the
last time I even used a TV I don't even
know but you don't need another one let
me tell you okay doesn't matter how
small your TV is remember back in the
day
I remember I had the one with the wood
paneling on the side and uh you know
that wasn't our only TV but I used that
TV because that's where my space was and
you know had to switch the channels with
the knob on that thing okay we may do
right no big
deal this is it showing us the financial
conditions and you could see that yes
over the past uh couple months here it's
it has been easing back to the levels we
saw it in the middle of 2022 I know it's
hard to believe hey interest rates are
still at the highest they have been in
this cycle what are you talking about
well may it's like a whole thing
Financial conditions index which you can
look up uh to see the whole breakdown
there but there's just use the term
broadly Financial conditions okay we
have this as well what it shows us um is
that you've got Costco you've got
Walmart um basically looking at
just becoming a place where people can
shop for gold it's saying look this not
direct to Consumer and so on all all I'm
trying to say here is it doesn't matter
who's selling it who's not what I'm
trying to say is people are buying
physical gold why why would they buy
physical gold when they could buy a
stock why would they buy it when they
could buy anything it's because they
trust that the gold will be there next
year 10 years 20 years I'll buy this
piece of gold and I'll pass it down
that's what they're thinking when they
buy it not that it's going to become the
next big thing they don't want that they
just want it to have some value so you
see the consumer and what they're doing
I think that's interesting and I'm also
you know I do this all the time robots
Korean Tech firm uh neighor aims to
expand use of its robots and this is
just showing the one example of you know
you'll have the guy in the back or maybe
it's a robot like Flippy the robot will
take the stuff from the kitchen put it
on this robot it brings it to your table
you pick it up off the table presumably
you would push a button or it would know
it has a sensor or something it goes
back to the back room and that's it no
server no waiter and by the way no tip
right and I would see this potentially
being at all the lower priced
restaurants they can remain lower priced
by eliminating that Human Resource as
they like to say if you want to stay on
top of this then you've got to get on my
live classes so I've got two live
classes which is basically the Friday
session where we look at the financial
conditions where we break it down every
single week so that you understand the
intricacies of all of this this
craziness this insanity and then the
Sunday class is where we talk about
building an online business so that we
can have geographical diversification so
that we can have currency
diversification so that we can have a
secondary source of income in case our
first disappears interested at all just
read the website link is in the
description I'll put it right at the top
there get on the live classes I hope to
see you there I got a lot of
communications uh between people just
asking questions about it wanting to
know about it but the information is
right there at the link you click on
that get everything you need to know I
hope to see you on there don't forget to
hit that thumbs up button on your way up
when you you're supporting me thank you
for that and as always I'll see you
tomorrow take care